---
layout: post
current: post
cover: /www.visitvictoria.com/-/media/atdw/melbourne/things-to-do/art-theatre-and-culture/performing-arts/cf0d49bf61e0a578812b674d4605de0e_2048x1152.jpeg
navigation: True
title: ASE 2020 Paper
date: 2020-07-30 08:30:00
tags: announcements
class: post-template
subclass: 'post tag-announcements'
author: mj
---

I am proud to announce that my latest paper, [Hybrid Deep Neural Networks to Infer State Models of Black-Box Systems](/papers/2020-Hybrid.pdf), is accepted for publication at ACM/IEEE conference ASE '20. 

In that work, I created a deep neural network architecture to detect internal state of an autopilot system (developed by our industry partner, MicroPilot Inc), as a blackbox system. For more details, I encourage you to read the paper, available [here](/papers/2020-Hybrid.pdf). This is the first milestone of this project, later after submitting this paper I worked on replicating this paper on another case study as well as improving it on other aspects as well. 
The results of the next extensions can be read in my [MSc thesis](https://github.com/MJafarMashhadi/University-of-Calgary-Graduate-Thesis). Source code (incl. docs) and data are publicly available on Github as well. [[1]](https://github.com/sea-lab/hybrid-net), [[2]](https://github.com/MJafarMashhadi/pprz_tester).

Due to the current devastating COVID situation, I will be presenting it online. Presentation slides and probably aa recording of the presentation will become available later, check [publications page](/publications/) on this website out for more information.


Abstract:
> Inferring behavior model of a running software system is quite useful for several automated software engineering tasks,
> such as program comprehension, anomaly detection, and testing. Most existing dynamic model inference techniques are 
> white-box, i.e., they require source code to be instrumented to get run-time traces. However, in many systems, 
> instrumenting the entire source code is not possible (e.g. when using black-box third-party libraries) or might be very 
> costly. Unfortunately, most black-box techniques that detect states over time are either univariate, or make assumptions 
> on the data distribution, or have limited power for learning over a long period of past behavior. To overcome the above 
> issues, in this paper, we propose a hybrid deep neural network that accepts as input a set of time series, one per 
> input/output signal of the system, and applies a set of convolutional and recurrent layers to learn the non-linear 
> correlations between signals and the patterns, over time. We have applied our approach on a real UAV auto-pilot solution 
> from our industry partner with half a million lines of C code. We ran 888 random recent system-level test cases and 
> inferred states, over time. Our comparison with several traditional time series change point detection techniques showed 
> that our approach improves their performance by up to 102%, in terms of finding state change points, measured by F1 score. 
> We also showed that our state classification algorithm provides on average 90.45% F1 score, which improves traditional 
> classification algorithms by up to 17%.